<h1> Advanced-Stock-Prediction-with-Backtesting </h1>
<h2> Input Ticker Symbol and start date for model training when prompted </h2>
<h3>This model uses a Random Forest model to Predict whether the price of the stock given will increase or decrease tomorrow.</h3>
<h4><p>Understanding the final output: The predictions column predicts whether the model thinks the stock price will increase or decrease the next trading day. 
A value of 0.0 means that the model does not think the price will increase tomorrow, while a value of 1.0 means that the model is at least 60% confident that the price will rise tomorrow. The Target column is what actually happened that day: whether the price increased or decreased.</p></h4> 
<h5>Note: Each value of the table is shifted one day forward, so add one day to the dates shown in the table for it to match up with real-world dates.</h5>
<p>
<h5></h5>My target for this model is to predict whether the stock will move up or down. Not trying to predict the absolute (close) price for the next day. Trying to predict the absolute price is a common pitfall and is not our main concern. As we want to know if we buy the stock right now will we turn a profit or a loss tomorrow?</h5></p>
<h6><p>Random forest model: random forest works by training individual decision trees with randomized parameters then averaging those decision trees resistant to overfit, and run quickly and pick up nonlinear tendencies (if the price is higher does not also mean the target must be higher: nonlinear) most stock market correlations are nonlinear. Also, it is next to impossible to find a linear relationship in stocks.</p></h6>
<h6>Backtesting algorithm explanation: Each year has ~250 trading days, so this is taking 10 years of data, and training the model. Then it takes the next 250 days and to predict the next year, then repeats the process. For example, it trains from 2000-2010 and then uses that data to train 2011. Then it uses 2000-2011 to predict 2012, then 2000-2012 to predict 2013. the first year (2500) days will not be predicted by the model but used solely as a training set. it will start from the 11th year predictions.</h6>
